MultiDomain
===========

[dune-multidomain][1] is a set of multi-domain extensions for the PDE solver
toolbox [PDELab][2] that is part of the [DUNE][3] project. It provides abstractions
for partioning a spatial domain into subdomains, defining subproblems on those
subdomains and for pair-wise coupling of those subproblems. The enhanced problem
assembler takes care of identifying coupling degrees of freedom and assembling the
complete system. While the general abstractions for subdomains etc. are independent
of the actual realization, dune-multidomain currently only ships a single backend for
defining spatial subdomains based on the [dune-multidomaingrid][4] module and the
DUNE meta grid MultiDomainGrid, which lets users define subdomains on top of an
existing DUNE grid.


Version
-------

This is version 2.0-dev of MultiDomainGrid. It is compatible with the 2.0.x release
series of PDELab and the 2.3.x release series of the DUNE core modules. The versioning
scheme of MultiDomain has recently been synchronized to that of PDELab to make it
easier for users to find a compatible release for their DUNE / PDELab distribution.

An overview of changes to the library can be found in the file
[RELEASE_NOTES.md][5].


Features
--------

* Support for arbitrary subdomain topologies, including non-contiguous domains.

* Full support for MPI-parallel computations on the subdomains.

* Definition of subproblems that only operate on a subset of the total DOFs. As an
  example, when coupling a free-flow domain discretized using Taylor-Hood (velocity +
  pressure) with a porous medium in scalar formulation (hydraulic head), the subproblems
  only see the variables relevant to their subdomain, making it possible to reuse existing
  single-physics codes that do not have to be aware of the multi-domain setting. The coupling
  operator on the other hand will of course have to be written specifically for the
  multi-physics setting.

* Definition of spatial domains for subproblems based on predicates that operate on the
  set of subdomains as exported by MultiDomainGrid.

* Efficient assembly of overall problem in a single mesh traversal.

* Output support to [VTK][6] files.

* Definition of P1 and Discontinuous Galerkin mortar spaces on subdomain-subdomain interfaces
  of codimension one.

* Extension of PDELab's interpolation and constraints evaluation support to subdomains.

If you have downloaded a release tarball, you can find the autogenerated Doxygen
API documentation in doc/doxygen/html. Otherwise, you can build this documentation
yourself by calling "make doc". Note that you need Doxygen and GraphViz available at
configure time to be able to build the documentation.

If you need help, please ask via [GitHub][1]. If you find bugs, you can also submit
them to the [bugtracker][7]. Even better, if you have managed to fix a problem, open
a [pull request][8] to get your patch merged into the library.


Dependencies
------------

dune-multidomain depends on the following software packages:

* [DUNE core libraries][3] (dune-common, dune-geometry, dune-grid, dune-istl,
  dune-localfunctions) version 2.3.x, and their respective dependencies.

* [PDELab][2] version 2.0.x.

* [dune-multidomaingrid][4] version 2.0.x.

* The [Boost][9] C++ libraries, in particular Boost.MPL and Boost.Fusion.

* MultiDomain's compiler requirements differ slightly from the underlying DUNE
  libraries: We require at least GCC 4.5 in C++11 mode, although we only
  regularly test GCC versions from GCC 4.7 onward. MultiDomainGrid should also work
  with very recent versions of ICC (icpc 14.0.3+) and current clang (3.2+).


License
-------

The MultiDomain library, headers and test programs are free open-source software,
dual-licensed under version 3 or later of the GNU Lesser General Public License
and version 2 of the GNU General Public License with a [special run-time exception][10].

See the file [COPYING.md][11] for full copying permissions.


Installation
------------

Short installation instructions can be found in the file [README.GIT.md][12].
For a full explanation of the DUNE installation process please read
the [installation notes][13] or the [build system HOWTO][14].


Links
-----

[1]:  http://github.com/smuething/dune-multidomain
[2]:  http://dune-project.org/pdelab/
[3]:  http://dune-project.org
[4]:  http://github.com/smuething/dune-multidomaingrid
[5]:  RELEASES_NOTES.md
[6]:  http://www.vtk.org
[7]:  https://github.com/smuething/dune-multidomain/issues
[8]:  https://github.com/smuething/dune-multidomain/pulls
[9]:  http://boost.org
[10]: http://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libstdc++/faq.html#faq.license
[11]: COPYING.md
[12]: README.GIT.md
[13]: http://dune-project.org/doc/installation-notes.html
[14]: http://dune-project.org/doc/buildsystem/buildsystem.pdf
